the Millers often feel on edge when they
walk through the forest at night humbled
by the limitations of human senses
although the problems of tracking the
jungle cats might seem overwhelming
they're using technology to help them
see in the dark
they set an infrared beam across an
animal trail when a creature passes it
triggers a flash photograph it's time
always top predators that get the
paparazzi treatment 15 cameras have
tracked the nocturnal cruising's of one
of the shyest cats
the Ocelot we've got three animals that
are left profile and every single
pattern is different and this is all
from the same three serpents if we
enlarge this one if we bring it up to
the size of the others is completely
different also but it's really
interesting these patterns along the
shoulders are really as distinctive as
fingerprints
one female Ocelot has unique horseshoe
markings on her left shoulder the
Millers have identified her core
territory and discovered that remarkably
she tolerates five other ocelots within
her home pouch they've established that
she can travel six kilometres each night
and what she's looking to eat
Packers have good night vision and a
perfect nose for the rummy smell of
fallen figs and other fruits hidden
under leaf litter sensitive whiskers
guide them through the tangled
undergrowth vital if they have to make a
quick exit in the dark
the Ocelot senses are just as well
primed lingering tell-tale scent marks
the Packers route home Packers often
shelter in rotten logs which become
infused with their smell it's like a
beacon to a sharp nose however the
Ocelot follows the pack of cautiously
they are the largest rodents in these
forests and dangerous when cornered
pack has always have a backdoor
undercurrent means of escape the Packer
cloaks itself in the stench of rotting
vegetation until the Ocelot picks up a
more promising lead